# gameplay-analytics-pipeline
The gameplay-analytics-pipeline is a serverless analytics pipeline that provides a solution for ingesting telemetry events from games and backend services. This application has been extended from the [Implementation Guide](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/solutions/latest/game-analytics-pipeline/welcome.html) from AWS and includes additional features such as a user-interface for accessing the solution API and a build/release pipeline. Changes are made incrementally and can be accesed via the release notes section of this repository. 

## Build/Release Pipeline
The build/release pipeline is a multi-account, enterprise-grade, dynamic branch pipeline for the serverless analytics pipeline application. The build/release pipeline has been extended from the [Implementation Guide](https://aws.amazon.com/solutions/partners/serverless-cicd-for-enterprise/) from AWS partner solution Trek10.
  
The build/release pipeline uses several AWS services to enable multiple development teams within an organization to collaborate on serverless application deployments. The following AWS resources are provisioned:

* AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) users, roles, and groups in your AWS development, production, and shared services accounts to control access to pipeline actions and deployed resources.
* Dynamic branch pipelines for deploying and testing new feature code in Git branches, using AWS CodePipeline.
* A master code pipeline that deploys to multiple AWS accounts, using AWS CodePipeline.
* An AWS CodeCommit repository for storing application code.
* Amazon Simple Storage Service (Amazon S3) buckets for pipeline artifacts.
* AWS Secrets Manager to store sensitive configuration data in a central location.
* AWS CodeBuild and AWS CodeDeploy configurations for building, deploying, and testing serverless applications.
* A sample serverless application that uses AWS Lambda, Amazon API Gateway, and Amazon DynamoDB.
* Integration with other Amazon services such as AWS Lambda, AWS Key Management Service (AWS KMS), and Amazon Simple Notification Service (Amazon SNS).
  
## Game Analytics Pipeline architecture
Deploys AWS resources to ingest game data from game clients, game servers, and other applications. The streaming data is ingested into Amazon S3 for data lake integration and interactive analytics. Streaming analytics processes real-time events and generates metrics. Data consumers analyze metrics data in Amazon CloudWatch and raw events in Amazon S3. Specifically, the template deploys the following essential building blocks for this solution:
  
* Solution API and configuration data—Amazon API Gateway provides REST API endpoints for registering game applications with the solution, and for ingesting game telemetry data, which sends the events to Amazon Kinesis Data Streams. Amazon DynamoDB stores game application configurations and API keys to use when sending events to the solution API.
* Events stream—Kinesis Data Streams captures streaming data from your game and enables real-time data processing by Amazon Kinesis Data Firehose and Amazon Kinesis Data Analytics.
* Streaming analytics—Kinesis Data Analytics analyzes streaming event data from the Kinesis Data Streams and generates custom metrics. The custom metrics outputs are processed using AWS Lambda and published to Amazon CloudWatch.
* Metrics and notifications—Amazon CloudWatch monitors, logs, and generates alarms for the utilization of AWS resources, and creates an operational dashboard. CloudWatch also provides metrics storage for custom metrics generated by Kinesis Data Analytics. Amazon Simple Notification Service (Amazon SNS) provides notification delivery to solution administrators and other data consumers when CloudWatch alarms are breached.
* Streaming ingestion—Kinesis Data Firehose consumes data from Kinesis Data Streams and invokes AWS Lambda with batches of events for serverless data processing and transformation before the data is delivered to Amazon S3.
* Data lake integration and ETL—Amazon S3 provides storage for raw and processed data. AWS Glue provides ETL processing workflows and metadata storage in the AWS Glue Data Catalog, which provides the basis for a data lake for integration with flexible analytics tools.
* Interactive analytics—Sample Amazon Athena queries are deployed to provide analysis of game events. Instructions for integrating with Amazon QuickSight are provided in the Automated Deployment section.